Joan Kandel: Hello.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Hello.
Joan Kandel: Hi, you made it. I'm so glad
Ella Rose ODonnell: You have
Ella Rose ODonnell: Like checked in yesterday morning, and then I lay down asleep.
Joan Kandel: That's what I heard.
Joan Kandel: All right, I'm just gonna wait till you get settled there.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Do you have headphones. Right.
We're all yeah
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't. I mean, I do. But I don't have my phone doesn't have the cord to I could call you back on my computer, which has better audio.
Joan Kandel: I'm actually fine with it for today. But when we do have groups which will be starting tomorrow you'll need to have headphones, just for
Joan Kandel: For confidentiality for the other people who are in the group so that you know there's no sound that comes out with just goes right into your ear.
Okay.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Y'all get at peace. Yeah, I mean I just moved so I have to find it.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I just moved. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, where are you now.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I'm in Los Alamos, New Mexico.
Joan Kandel: Where were you
Ella Rose ODonnell: I was in a ghost springs then before that I was in Montana and then before that I was in Albuquerque.
Joan Kandel: Oh, wow.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, you're
Joan Kandel: On the go.
Ella Rose ODonnell: And three months.
Joan Kandel: Cheese. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Do you feel like your life is settling down
Joan Kandel: At this point, yeah. You're in Los Alamos
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, my family's here. I'm seeing in one of my dad's rentals so
Joan Kandel: Good.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Finally, come down there was my boyfriend was on the run, like he was, he had a warrant because of a probation, but violation. So
Ella Rose ODonnell: He's an email. So getting it taken care of.
Joan Kandel: Got it. So no more running
Ella Rose ODonnell: No.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. How long will he be in jail.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't really know where I'm sure the probation violation was like just a PV and Albuquerque. But then they revoked his probation, I guess, without telling him in Montana. So you might have to go to Montana to see a judge, but we don't know yet.
Joan Kandel: Oh, gosh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: That's hard. Yeah, but it's it's what needed to be done. I'm actually relieved
Joan Kandel: Are you
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, definitely. It was too little too crazy.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that sounds pretty dicey.
Joan Kandel: YEAH, YEAH, WELL, GOOD, I'M GLAD YOU'RE relieved and hopefully that'll work out. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Um, how long have you been together with him.
Ella Rose ODonnell: About, about a year and a half.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh, yeah and and how do you feel about your relationship.
Ella Rose ODonnell: It was really great at the beginning, um,
Ella Rose ODonnell: And then he he was an addict and but he had been clean for seven years and then somehow got introduced to one of my friends from like rehab or something.
And
Ella Rose ODonnell: And I guess my friend.
Ella Rose ODonnell: They somehow talks like got into doing heroin together and then
Ella Rose ODonnell: It took me a long time he was doing it and I was getting mad stuff and then I finally just gave in and tried it, like after like five or six months.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So,
Ella Rose ODonnell: Uh huh. And that was in like that was in like October last year.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. And and you hadn't used before that.
Joan Kandel: No. Uh huh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I I did have, like, I had a drinking problem when I was like 19 and I went to rehab and I haven't drank ever since. So
Ella Rose ODonnell: Now that went away pretty quick. It was kind of a weird thing. I didn't really I don't know if I really had a real drinking problem. I just had a lot going on and
Ella Rose ODonnell: A lot at that time and then
Ella Rose ODonnell: But I haven't wanted to drink sense so
Ella Rose ODonnell: Uh huh. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Did you did was rehab helpful for you.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Um, so yeah, it was, it definitely was it. It was an experience and like it kind of introduces you to like things some bad things to like that. Right.
Joan Kandel: Right.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Because I was pretty sheltered pretty isolated from what was really going on in the world. Besides, like alcohol.
Joan Kandel: Right, yeah. So it kind of opened your eyes.
Ella Rose ODonnell: It normalized it for me. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. Normal right
Joan Kandel: Now haha yeah. Oh, that's interesting. That's an interesting perspective.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: How long were you in rehab.
Ella Rose ODonnell: 30 days just a program. And then I was in Oxford House in Albuquerque.
Joan Kandel: Okay, is that
Joan Kandel: Like a sober living
Ella Rose ODonnell: Place. Yeah, they have them all over
Ella Rose ODonnell: But yeah, in Albuquerque. It was really helpful. I got places like a bunch of really great girls so
Joan Kandel: Oh, nice.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, you still have friends from that.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I do. Yeah. One of my friends from the house is actually she runs Oxford for New Mexico, so
Oh, wow.
Joan Kandel: That's great.
Joan Kandel: Well, we just kind of dove into a conversation, but I didn't introduce myself. I'm Dr. Danielle.
Joan Kandel: TO MEET YOU. HI ELLA.
Joan Kandel: On. I'm glad you're here. That's good. So tell me a little bit about why you're here and what's happening with you.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So ever since we started or I started, I was always trying to kind of get bolt like him off. And then I had no problem getting off of it like it was fine for me.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Until like January.
Ella Rose ODonnell: He went in to jail for like only like five or six days and
Ella Rose ODonnell: And I had and I wanted to stop. So I tried to stop and that's when my like withdraw started so that time I didn't actually I didn't stay clean. I ended up using again.
Ella Rose ODonnell: And then not and then February came or no later in January. He checked in with his people again and she sent him to a detox because he wasn't clean then either
Ella Rose ODonnell: Which is understandable because I he came out and I was using so
Ella Rose ODonnell: Then he went in to detox and i i got clean while he was in detox. So when he came out, I was clean. Then, and then just a week later, you started using again. So then I did, um,
Ella Rose ODonnell: And then ever since then it's been kind of like
Ella Rose ODonnell: I feel like I gave up kind of trying to get off of it which sucks.
Ella Rose ODonnell: But then I got pregnant.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, no.
Joan Kandel: Dad, did you get to tell me about the pregnancy.
I'm
Ella Rose ODonnell: I'm I'm 12 weeks so
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
So,
Ella Rose ODonnell: November 18
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, I'm so then we went to big OSA. And I actually got into see a great doctor. I really liked her name was Korean read
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, number
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, and so she got me started on Sunday text because I'm allergic to naloxone I tried it at
Ella Rose ODonnell: The for like anti cravings Adam The rehabs
Ella Rose ODonnell: And had like a really weird reaction like they try the shop to and just like gave me like kind of a rash and then my throat got really itchy and my tongue God's will and so
Ella Rose ODonnell: Oh, wow. Um, yeah. So then I'm
Ella Rose ODonnell: Goodness, my boyfriend is calling
Ella Rose ODonnell: So then Sunday, and then does it. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay. He'll. He'll call later. Okay.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Um, and so I started this IV text and then that's when we decided, or he decided to finally turn himself in. So we moved here to Los Alamos and
Ella Rose ODonnell: I, I basically we had to move like right away.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Like in like two days. So we moved
Ella Rose ODonnell: And then I talked to my doctor after I had already moved. Dr. Reid and told her, and she can't prescribe out of the county so
Ella Rose ODonnell: Uh huh. Yeah, so that's where I am. And so I've, I had to
Ella Rose ODonnell: Contact like my old people that I got stuff from and I had to start using that, again, but um and I wouldn't have done that, if there wasn't such a huge risk of miscarriage. So
Ella Rose ODonnell: I want to hear it for good.
Ella Rose ODonnell: And I he I mean SEBI texts was working
Joan Kandel: Yeah, tell me about that. What would it. How did you feel when you were on the set the text.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So the first day I didn't feel very good. Um, it was only eight milligrams of first day and then I think we got up to lose either 14 or 16 I can't remember. But, uh, then I was on that for a few days and I felt great.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: There was a little bit of like depression but
Ella Rose ODonnell: Like physically. I felt fine.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. And what was the, what was the transition like
Joan Kandel: Getting on to it. Did you go into withdrawal.
Ella Rose ODonnell: To get on. Yeah. So when I first saw Dr. Reid, I was
Ella Rose ODonnell: I was withdrawing pretty bad.
I
Ella Rose ODonnell: Because we had moved to Chicago. So we didn't know anybody in for those
Ella Rose ODonnell: And basically, my plan was to just like count on this like trying to get something at the hospital and then sticking with that.
Ella Rose ODonnell: And I thought it was going to be in for those of her while I'm so then she prescribed that and that that first day, like she prescribed only the eight milligrams and she would be like tape it up kind of
Ella Rose ODonnell: But
Ella Rose ODonnell: So we started at eight and then the next day. I think it was 12
Ella Rose ODonnell: And then
Ella Rose ODonnell: After that it was 14 or 16 and
Ella Rose ODonnell: I mean, yeah, I was in withdrawal. When I first started it, and then I didn't feel that much better.
Joan Kandel: Until
Ella Rose ODonnell: I got the bigger dogs.
Joan Kandel: Got it, okay. But you didn't go into what we call precipitated withdrawal, you know,
Ella Rose ODonnell: No, no. Yeah, I don't
Know,
Joan Kandel: Because you are already in withdrawal.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, and I, I was kind of under the
Ella Rose ODonnell: Do you still go into precipitated withdrawal is the no option isn't present
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's actually the buprenorphine that makes you go into
Joan Kandel: Not done the locks on
Ella Rose ODonnell: So I didn't go into that because I wasn't withdraw.
Joan Kandel: Got it. So, um, when did you last take any opiates now.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Ah, yesterday around
Ella Rose ODonnell: I want to say, probably around like 10pm.
Joan Kandel: Okay, and how are you feeling right now.
Joan Kandel: In terms of thrills
Ella Rose ODonnell: Me. Okay. I mean,
Ella Rose ODonnell: The way like it's like when I get really cold. I get really cold but like start sweating. That's like the worst thing for me and I'm already like that. So, but I'm not like severe just
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Keep now I know I just kind of go kind of crummy
Joan Kandel: Okay. And when was the last time you went into bad withdraw.
Ella Rose ODonnell: It was that time. Oh no, it was in Montana, um,
Ella Rose ODonnell: It was like
Joan Kandel: It wasn't before Rosa.
Ella Rose ODonnell: month and a half ago it was I think it was like right when I yeah it was before it goes out and it was like at the beginning of my pregnancy and
Ella Rose ODonnell: I knew
Joan Kandel: Okay, and
Joan Kandel: When you went to post it to see Dr. Reid, did you
Joan Kandel: Were you in worse withdrawal, then here you are now.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yes.
Joan Kandel: How much worse.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I would say probably give it like three or four hours.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. From now.
Joan Kandel: From the movie about that. Say, uh huh.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I'm okay. Because I'm just trying to strategize here to
Joan Kandel: Get you transitioned on to it because I don't want you to go into bad precipitated withdrawal.
Joan Kandel: Because that yeah uncomfortable.
You don't. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Have you ever had that you never had the only time you ever had.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, I've never, I've never had precipitated which I've heard of it. And I've been really afraid. So I usually push it too far. I usually go like
Joan Kandel: Aha.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I usually get pretty like in which all before I take it.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right.
So,
Joan Kandel: So what we'll do is when you do feel like you're in bad enough withdrawal, like you say probably three to four hours from, you know,
Joan Kandel: But we'll have you just take a very small amount.
Joan Kandel: Like start with two milligrams at a time.
Joan Kandel: And work my way up. Because if you if you were to take two milligrams and that threw you into precipitated with your all your precipitated withdrawal.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Wheatley as bad as if you took four
Joan Kandel: Or eight
Joan Kandel: So it's a kind of a good way to kind of take a small dose, just to kind of stick. Put your toe in the water and see. Make sure that you're not going to go into bed precipitated withdraw so
Joan Kandel: That's so that's how we'll do it.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay.
Joan Kandel: So I'm going to get you the eight milligram
Joan Kandel: Pills.
Joan Kandel: You were taking pills. Right. Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, they dissolve.
Joan Kandel: Yeah right under your tongue.
Joan Kandel: Yep, yep.
Joan Kandel: So what you'll what you'll do is you will break it into into four
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, you take
Joan Kandel: Two at a time. Okay, you have a pill cutter.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't
Ella Rose ODonnell: But I have a sharp knife, you might
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that's kind of
Ella Rose ODonnell: Dangerous and now they're missing.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so if you could pick up a pill cutter at the pharmacy when you go get it. That would be great. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Just because it's a little bit more precise.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: And and less dangerous than using a shirt.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so, um,
Joan Kandel: Yeah, and we don't know. We don't know how high you'll need to go. You may need to get up to the 14 to 16 milligrams, but we'll kind of see how it goes and
Joan Kandel: Okay, and see how you do. And, and we'll be seeing each other tomorrow because that's when our group is our weekly group is on
Wednesdays.
Joan Kandel: At four. Are you able to do that. Wednesday, so
Joan Kandel: Good. So you and I will be able to talk tomorrow and you can let me know how how it went today. So I'm just giving you enough today and tomorrow. And then you can let me know how that went.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. Good.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so
Joan Kandel: Uh, have you been using heroin or what have you been using
Joan Kandel: Heroin heroin.
Ella Rose ODonnell: It that time I spent on it.
Joan Kandel: I know that. Oh, gosh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: This because I've been drug tested in
Ella Rose ODonnell: In has had to. I also tried to Methadone clinic to I forgot to tell you that
Joan Kandel: Oh yeah, tell me about that.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Um, back in December know back back in like around
Ella Rose ODonnell: It was around Thanksgiving. I tried. We started methadone and
Ella Rose ODonnell: That was still when I was like, pretty like adamant on getting off of it. But my boyfriend still wanted to us while we were using methadone.
Ella Rose ODonnell: And so it's like, but when we wouldn't be using like everything was so good. We were so happy like everything was great, but He just, he's an I mean his, his body really drugs.
Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So he
Ella Rose ODonnell: See, so he and I would kind of like if he would use. I would use basically so
Ella Rose ODonnell: We started the Methadone clinic. And then when we would run out, we wouldn't feel bad or anything. It was nice.
Ella Rose ODonnell: But then that's so when he went to jail.
Ella Rose ODonnell: That's when he stopped that. Will he couldn't get method on jail for some reason.
Ella Rose ODonnell: And he was supposed to be able to, but he couldn't. And so when I found out that I didn't want to do it anymore because he was going to get out and I'll be so stupid, but as I had a bad codependency problem with him, but I've gotten a lot better.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So,
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't, I didn't. I felt like I didn't really withdraw from the methadone, but that's also because I was
Joan Kandel: I see. And what was your dose of methadone.
Ella Rose ODonnell: 60 or 70
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, and the liquid
Joan Kandel: Yeah, and you, you just stopped it.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, just stopped.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. But then you started using
Ella Rose ODonnell: Uh, yeah, I was using it the same time.
Joan Kandel: The whole time. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right, thanks for telling me that that's great.
Joan Kandel: How long do you think you were on the Methadone program.
A month
Joan Kandel: To
Ella Rose ODonnell: Two months. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Oh, okay.
Ella Rose ODonnell: It's like four seasons is what it's called an Albuquerque or something like that.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, new season new season, that's
It. Okay.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
All right.
Joan Kandel: And and you hadn't used heroin before October of last year.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Mm hmm never even seen it.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Wow. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Thanks went downhill pretty fast for you.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: My life got turned upside down quick. I went
Ella Rose ODonnell: To quitting or being Montana and all crazy stuff.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's been a crazy ride for you and
Ella Rose ODonnell: You know what, I'm ready to get back to normal.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: Eight months, I guess.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Time to get back to normal. And how does your. How does your family feel about things they supportive. Oh, they have no
Ella Rose ODonnell: No idea.
Ella Rose ODonnell: You have no idea. No.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, as the jury part
Joan Kandel: Yeah, you're, you're
Ella Rose ODonnell: Thinking about telling my mom.
Ella Rose ODonnell: One side on
Ella Rose ODonnell: The side effects.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh, and feeling
Joan Kandel: Stable and everything. Yeah, how's your relationship in general with your mom.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Good except for i mean i hate hiding it from them, so it
Ella Rose ODonnell: Kind of makes us fight a lot because I'm kind of like bitter.
Ella Rose ODonnell: But and
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't have the same personality as I usually do, but because it's like, you know, when does your personality. A lot
Ella Rose ODonnell: Um, so I don't know, it's kind of our relationship right now, isn't the best, but it's because of me.
So,
Joan Kandel: So it might really actually helped quite a bit to just open up and get
Joan Kandel: Get real and get honest.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Because the yeah my really nice.
Right, right.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So we'll show Sam nervous about
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Well, she knew
Joan Kandel: About the about the alcohol stuff and
Joan Kandel: Yeah, to get into rehab before
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so maybe she'll be understanding
Ella Rose ODonnell: This time, Amy, Kelsey.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I guess so, yeah.
Joan Kandel: Well, the other thing that's part of the bright heart health program is is therapy counseling. So we do the group, the group therapy which has a therapist and a doctor me
Joan Kandel: And then you'll also do individual therapy once a week at a different time. And so that, you know, maybe you can kind of process these things and strategize and
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: And be able to to kind of help that relationship with your mom.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, and work on relationship with your boyfriend, too.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: There's a lot to work on there.
Joan Kandel: Yes, yeah.
Joan Kandel: How are you feeling about the pregnancy and being pregnant.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I'm excited. I mean, I have a lot of guilt because of this whole situation but
Ella Rose ODonnell: I just want to make sure I'm off of air when
Joan Kandel: You're doing the right thing, my dear, you definitely aren't. Yeah, definitely.
Joan Kandel: Um, how many times have you been pregnant.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Once this is it.
Joan Kandel: This is the first time.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, yeah.
Joan Kandel: All right. And what's the plan for getting prenatal care. Have you hooked up with anybody.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I have an appointment tomorrow. Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Awesome.
Ella Rose ODonnell: How's that 10
Joan Kandel: Great. Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: That is great. And so you're gonna tell them that you're on.
Joan Kandel: So yeah out. I will tell them, yes.
Joan Kandel: Perfect, yeah.
Joan Kandel: Great. That's great. Did you know that doctors
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't, it's at El Centro and out Espanola so
Joan Kandel: Oh, perfect.
Joan Kandel: Great.
Joan Kandel: In terms of your
Joan Kandel: Medical history. Do you have any medical problems.
Ella Rose ODonnell: No, I'm allergic to latex.
But since. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Oh, you do. Okay, how bad your asthma.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Not bad. I haven't had its exercise induced and I haven't had
Ella Rose ODonnell: To use my inhaler in a while.
Joan Kandel: Oh, great.
Joan Kandel: All right, good. Um it. Do you take any medications.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I was on Lisinopril for high blood pressure, but my blood pressure has been completely normal lately.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So I'm off that and then I was on Bupropion but I'm off that too because I'm pregnant.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Um, so yeah, so you take nomads. Do you take a prenatal vitamin
Ella Rose ODonnell: A do
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Excellent. So your allergies are latex and naloxone
Joan Kandel: Yeah, there's
Ella Rose ODonnell: Um, I'm allergic to like bananas and avocados and rose. Yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: But nothing else medicine.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right.
Joan Kandel: Have you ever had any surgeries at all.
Ella Rose ODonnell: No, just my wisdom teeth.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: How old are you, then
Ella Rose ODonnell: 15
Okay.
Joan Kandel: So right now, you're living with your, with your mom.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Or mom and dad.
Joan Kandel: Oh right, you're living in one of the cases. That's great.
Joan Kandel: Okay. That's right.
Joan Kandel: And but you're in the same town as your mom.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, as my mom and dad and my
Ella Rose ODonnell: brother in law and nieces. Yeah.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And are your mom and dad in good health.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yes, very good health.
Oh, good.
Joan Kandel: That's nice. And you have. How many siblings, just your sister.
Ella Rose ODonnell: One sister and then my brother is actually a doctor as well. He's an Albuquerque.
Uh huh.
Joan Kandel: Nice.
Joan Kandel: How do you get one with your brother and sister.
Ella Rose ODonnell: My sister are not getting along. I know, but me and my brother get along really well. Usually, me and my sister. Okay. But just like I said things are a little off right now.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it will get better.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: Gotta get through the rough, rough patch.
Joan Kandel: Well, who is that
Ella Rose ODonnell: That's one of my dogs.
Joan Kandel: Oh, sweet.
Or
Joan Kandel: What's the, what's the dog's name.
Joan Kandel: Cora. Cora.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Cora, and then Cooper's outside
Joan Kandel: Haha Cora is in love with you.
Joan Kandel: Hi Cora. Oh, she's very sweet.
Joan Kandel: I'm glad you have your dogs.
Joan Kandel: That's good.
good company.
Joan Kandel: Do you do you drink these days.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Do I what
Joan Kandel: Do you drink alcohol.
Ella Rose ODonnell: No, not at all.
Joan Kandel: Did you drink before you've got pregnant. No, you haven't had any
Ella Rose ODonnell: Sense to him drink for years.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good is is that her for you or
Ella Rose ODonnell: Not so, no.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Not at all.
Good, good.
Joan Kandel: Um, how about tobacco.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah. So right now I smoke like one cigarette a day, maybe two.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I'm trying to stop.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. How much were you smoking before
Ella Rose ODonnell: Probably a quarter of a pack.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh, uh,
Joan Kandel: Huh. Um, and
Joan Kandel: And why are you stopping
Ella Rose ODonnell: Because I'm pregnant.
Joan Kandel: Good. That's good. Are you
Joan Kandel: Are you thinking about stuffing even beyond pregnancy.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, yeah. I mean, I don't even really enjoy smoking that much.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't know why do
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. Well, it would be, it would be a tremendous thing for your health to
Joan Kandel: Yeah, to get rid of it. You know this. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So, if so, so at this point you're smoking one, maybe two a day.
Joan Kandel: And do you have a plan for
Joan Kandel: Quitting completely
Ella Rose ODonnell: What's your plan. I just ran out. So that was good.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, that's a good plan. MAYBE JUST NOT BUYING ANYMORE. Huh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, and it's, I mean, right now, my vehicle is not running. So I can't really run to the store and
Ella Rose ODonnell: Haha so works out.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. Well, that is good.
Joan Kandel: How would you get to the pharmacy.
Ella Rose ODonnell: My mom told me that the pharmacy.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Oh, good. I'll just start me off at the store, while I run in and pick me back up.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: Is it going to be weird that you're going to the pharmacy all the time.
Ella Rose ODonnell: No.
Joan Kandel: You'll make something happen. You'll tell her what
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, I mean, I'll tell her.
Ella Rose ODonnell: In the next few days.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. Okay, got it.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good, and
Joan Kandel: And you are not working.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I am not working.
Joan Kandel: You just got there.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Plans for a job right now it's like impossible for me.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Yeah, good point.
Joan Kandel: So tell me a little bit about what about your withdrawal symptoms right now. What are you feeling and how severe is it
Ella Rose ODonnell: So I'm definitely, I definitely
Ella Rose ODonnell: Like I'm cold but like I have the cold sweats and let's what always happens is, like, like my muscles like spasm. It's so weird, but
Ella Rose ODonnell: That's not an angle. I can feel that now a little bit, but it's not like actually happening.
Um,
Ella Rose ODonnell: And
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, right. So basically, it's this cold sweats right now. And I think I have a fever, maybe
Uh huh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: But my I don't have body aches yet.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, that usually happens. A little later.
Joan Kandel: Got it to you usually get like
Joan Kandel: Sneezing and watery eyes and tearing and
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't know that I
Ella Rose ODonnell: Heard about that. But I think maybe
Ella Rose ODonnell: Does but I don't really notice
Ella Rose ODonnell: I'm so focused on the other symptoms that I don't know.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Yeah, right.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: How about anxiety or irritability.
Ella Rose ODonnell: irritable. Yeah, yeah.
Joan Kandel: I know you're feeling that now.
Ella Rose ODonnell: No, it's not that bad by a little bit
Joan Kandel: But not okay. Okay, well you're being very, very nice to me so
Ella Rose ODonnell: I don't
Joan Kandel: I don't get the sense that you're completely your book because it could be kind of noxious all these questions asking
Joan Kandel: Yep.
Joan Kandel: So that's nice. Um, so I'm just going to run down a list of symptoms. Not that you are having them now. But if you had the any of these
Joan Kandel: You know, on a regular basis, within the last few months, let me know and I'll just read through so
Joan Kandel: fatigue, weight change, change in vision redness in the eyes pain in the eyes hearing loss or ear pain. Or ringing in the ears.
Joan Kandel: Bloody nose sores in the mouth or pain in the teeth pain in the neck.
Joan Kandel: trouble breathing cough wheeze pain in the chest.
Joan Kandel: Palpitations belly pain, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation,
Joan Kandel: Burning when up blood into your pee change in hair or skin or easy bruising.
Joan Kandel: Muscle pain back pain, difficulty walking headache, dizziness, numbness lack of coordination weakness difficulty speaking change in mood, depression, anxiety, insomnia, suicidal thoughts hallucinations, any of that.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Depression, anxiety, I mean, some of us from being pregnant. I drove every day. And that acne.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, I know, I like it didn't even have acne in high school.
Joan Kandel: Oh, wow.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So it's really bad.
Ella Rose ODonnell: What else anxiety and depression. I'm a little bit of that, um,
Ella Rose ODonnell: I guess we pretty good.
Joan Kandel: Oh, good.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I mean, I need to. It needs to be more normalized. Yeah, go to bed at the same time, but I lay down. I can fall asleep. Uh huh.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yes.
Good.
Joan Kandel: And no suicidal thoughts.
Ella Rose ODonnell: No, no.
Joan Kandel: Said ever been an issue for you.
Ella Rose ODonnell: As
Ella Rose ODonnell: An eating disorder in high school, but not really. I mean I struggled with it a lot, but not suicide never really an option now.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And do you do you get diarrhea. When you get going to throw
Ella Rose ODonnell: A I'm not really sure. That's another one constipated. I'm I'm am constipated all the time.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right. Um, how tall are you, and how much do you weigh
Ella Rose ODonnell: I am 150 on the dot. And I'm about five seven
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you happen to know what your blood pressure was when you had it checked last
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, it's in my labs. I think it was one full over 72
Joan Kandel: Awesome. Great. Thank you.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, all my labs. I sent
Ella Rose ODonnell: To somebody there. So, like, oh,
Ella Rose ODonnell: Bunch of stuff so
Joan Kandel: There was this relapse with Dr. Murray.
Joan Kandel: Okay great, thanks. I'll take a look at this. You did that the other day.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, I sent me yesterday.
Joan Kandel: Oh, perfect. Okay, thank you for doing that.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I'm
Joan Kandel: Good. Okay, so I'm gonna
Joan Kandel: Want to do a little bit of a physical exam, which is kind of goofy this, you know, we're on our computers and stuff.
Joan Kandel: But if you could just
Joan Kandel: Let me look into your eyes. If you could bring the camera right to it.
Joan Kandel: Right into the camera.
Ella Rose ODonnell: birthmark under this I
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, or even see
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: That's great. Okay, so
Joan Kandel: Look to your
Joan Kandel: Let me see both eyes. That's perfect, and look to your right.
Joan Kandel: And look to your left.
Joan Kandel: And look up towards the top of your head. Great. And now down towards your feet.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you have any problems.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Know,
Joan Kandel: Your eyes are
Ella Rose ODonnell: Where I wear
Ella Rose ODonnell: Glasses and contacts. Sometimes, if I remember but I'm I don't like to wear them stuff.
Joan Kandel: And you don't really need them. You're not blinding
Ella Rose ODonnell: Them.
Joan Kandel: You kind of do. Okay. All right. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: So now let me look in your mouth.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. Great. Okay. Good. You can pull that back and let me just see you take some deep breaths.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. And now let me have you just kind of push on your belly just all different areas of your belly and let me know if everything feels soft and fine.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: And do I forgot to ask you how you use heroin, do you shoot
Do you smoke now.
Joan Kandel: You smoke. Okay. Ever. Have you ever injected. No, no, no. Okay, um,
Joan Kandel: How about snorted.
Joan Kandel: Nope, okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you did you. Um, have you had an ultrasound or listen to the baby's heartbeat.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, I do. I'd listen to the heartbeat and having ultrasound. Yeah, I have that
Ella Rose ODonnell: Night like
Ella Rose ODonnell: It was right before I moved to pick up, sir.
Joan Kandel: Okay, I'm not not in progress or
Ella Rose ODonnell: No, I was only in for those of the week and a half.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Oh yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: Well you got into care pretty quick. Good for you.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, I went like the first sales.
Joan Kandel: Yeah look good for you. Did you let did you learn to read. Know that you
Joan Kandel: That you left
Joan Kandel: Yeah you did. Okay. Because I'm sure she would worry about you with
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: If she didn't know that you like. If she just thought you were in town, but not coming
Ella Rose ODonnell: He's gone. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so, um,
Joan Kandel: So let's talk a little bit about the program we've already talked some about it.
Joan Kandel: So it is, as you know, it's all based on, you know, it's all telemedicine. So it's all based on the computer. And that's how
Joan Kandel: We meet with you.
Joan Kandel: And it's, as I said, there's a one group, a week and then one individual therapy, a week.
Joan Kandel: And unless you feel like you want more, you can have more therapy than that if you want to. If you feel like you need more support. You can also meet with me individually. If you ever wanted to. You can make an appointment and we can talk about whatever
Joan Kandel: Most of the time what we do in the group is it's an hour long and usually the first part of that is a medical check in. So I check in with everybody who's there just kind of how they're doing on their dose.
Joan Kandel: And and how they're doing in general medically mostly specific to the addiction stuff.
Joan Kandel: But sometimes people have
Joan Kandel: Other questions that they want to talk to me about not in the group, not in front of people.
Joan Kandel: And that's totally understandable and totally fine.
Joan Kandel: So I'm available for individual appointments to so
Joan Kandel: If you ever wanted to meet with me, you
Joan Kandel: Can do that.
Joan Kandel: Okay, so. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And then
Joan Kandel: So the groups is when we do the prescriptions. So usually folks will get a one week prescription
Joan Kandel: And if but if people don't show up to their appointments like for individual therapy sometimes will shorten the prescription to just a few days to get you to that appointment so that you show up for that one. And then you'll get another prescription after that.
Ella Rose ODonnell: So make sense. Okay. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: But if, as long as you're showing up to your appointments and stuff like that, then we do a week at a time.
Joan Kandel: For the from group to group. So, our group is going to be Wednesdays at four. So check in at about 330 because every week. They'll have you do a survey, like a self survey, how you're doing how things are going.
Joan Kandel: And that takes a little while so the check in process usually takes about 20 to 30 minutes so show up at 330 tomorrow. And then it's actually a new group.
Joan Kandel: Jessica is going to be the therapist and she's wonderful I'm going to be the doctor.
Joan Kandel: And I think we have three people in there. So it's kind of a small group. Generally, we usually run our groups about eight to 10 people
Joan Kandel: But since this is a new group. You'll all be getting to know each other at the same time, which is kind of cool. And it's kind of smallish to start and we'll have folks. Add to that as we go along, but
Joan Kandel: That'll be
Joan Kandel: That'll be really good. I think you'll like the people who are in there.
Joan Kandel: And hopefully, that can be a support to you.
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: The one other thing I want to tell you about is that part of the program is
Joan Kandel: Your indirect screens and it's about every month or so.
Joan Kandel: And what they do is you do not have to go into the lab for that every month we'll send it to you in the mail.
Joan Kandel: So will you'll get in the mail, like a bulky package like a big envelope that has a urine cup in it and what you do when you get that envelope is don't open it.
Joan Kandel: Call the virtual clinic because they will have you open it in front of them so that they know that it wasn't tampered with. And then they'll have you take it out and then I'll have you go to the bathroom and come back and then they'll read it on the camera.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I'll say
Joan Kandel: That's so that's how that'll work. And it's just really easy. So you just do that at home.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Next,
Joan Kandel: It's good, and really the virtual clinic is the place to go if you have any concerns. Any questions, any problems with your prescription any problems with your appointments. If you needed to reschedule something that's the place to go.
Joan Kandel: If you need to get in touch with me. You can ask them to
Joan Kandel: contact me if you need to.
Joan Kandel: And and i can also give you my email if you wanted to.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: If you needed to get in touch with me. But generally speaking, virtual clinic is the place to to to go if you need anything like that because they can coordinate things. But if you needed to just say something to me or had a quick question for me. You could email me directly.
Joan Kandel: All right, and that's Jay candle at Breitbart health com
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, so, Jay. How do you spell Kendall
Joan Kandel: Kendall, so it's j k in D. L.
Joan Kandel: Is no dots or anything.
Ella Rose ODonnell: At a
Joan Kandel: And D AMP. A and D. L.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay at right heart.
Joan Kandel: Bright heart health. COM
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And no periods in that either.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: And there's no smoking in the group's Pachinko fully won't be an issue for you.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Yeah, hopefully.
Joan Kandel: And so you have two ends in your last name.
Ella Rose ODonnell: blends into else
Joan Kandel: Okay, so will you call when you talk to virtual clinic.
Joan Kandel: We tell them that in your chart, it has one and
Joan Kandel: So they can fix that, because I was wondering about that.
Joan Kandel: Because I thought it was strange to not have two ends and two L's, because that
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. So they have it wrong. So let them know
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you have questions for me. So I guess we didn't talk specifically about your about your minutes, but we did a little bit. Do you understand how to do your like take the yeah
Joan Kandel: The two milligrams at a time. Yeah, okay, good. So if you have any questions about that, like later today. You can email me directly and say this is what's happening. And, you know, just something you know that I'm
Joan Kandel: I'm here. If you're having any problems, but I don't expect that you're going to have problems, I would suggest that you wait like we've talked about, you know, another
Joan Kandel: Three or four hours until you're a bit more sick, but not super duper sick and then start with two milligrams under the tongue and just kind of see it. You may not feel
Joan Kandel: A lot better, but what we want is you. We don't want you to feel worse if you feel worse and you feel like all of a sudden you get really sick, then that's precipitated withdrawal. And then if precipitated withdrawal happens. You just have to wait it out.
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: If that were to happen. Don't take any more. Just kind of wait and wait a few more hours to get sick again and try it again. And it'll work.
Joan Kandel: I don't expect it to happen, but if it does, then, then that's the thing to do and
Joan Kandel: Okay, it's not a cause for freaking out.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay.
Joan Kandel: wait it out.
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay.
Joan Kandel: Do you have any questions.
Ella Rose ODonnell: I do
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: Well, I'm really glad that you're here, it's the right thing to do and I'm looking forward to you getting you're getting your life back and getting in a routine that things
Joan Kandel: Will say to you, yeah.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Thank you. So are you just going to add Smith pharmacy here.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, wherever you gave them the the script all double check and make sure that it's Smith's. Is that where you want it to be.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Is the only place so
Joan Kandel: Oh, perfect. What street is it on
Joan Kandel: Trinity. Say it again.
Joan Kandel: Trinity. TRINITY. Okay, so I'll just double check and make sure that that's where it's going, but
Ella Rose ODonnell: I'm sure that's for us because
Joan Kandel: That's what you told him, I said, so yes. As soon as we get off the phone. I'm going to type it in there and I'm just giving you enough for today and tomorrow, what I'll do is I'm going to get you two pills, so
Joan Kandel: eight milligrams
Joan Kandel: A day and eight milligrams for tomorrow. And you can let me know tomorrow if it feels like that's enough, or if you feel like you do need to go up on your dose to feel stable. So we'll but but for now we'll go with that.
Joan Kandel: Kind of just see how it goes. And then tomorrow, we'll make a decision as to whether that seems like enough or not.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Okay.
Ella Rose ODonnell: Sounds like a plan. Sounds great.
Joan Kandel: All right, my dear.
Joan Kandel: Take care. Thank you for. All right, welcome. I'll see you tomorrow.
Bye bye.